README.md, before:

# ROS-VDBFusion: Flexible and Efficient TSDF Integration

A ROS C++ wrapper to the [vdbfusion](https://github.com/PRBonn/vdbfusion) library for flexible and efficient TSDF Integration

## Installation

### OpenVDB

```sh
# Install OpenVDB dependencies
sudo apt-get update && apt-get install --no-install-recommends -y \
    libblosc-dev \
    libboost-iostreams-dev \
    libboost-system-dev \
    libboost-system-dev \
    libeigen3-dev

# Install OpenVDB from source
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/nachovizzo/openvdb.git -b nacho/vdbfusion && cd openvdb
mkdir build && cd build && cmake  -DCMAKE_POSITION_INDEPENDENT_CODE=ON -DUSE_ZLIB=OFF .. &&  sudo make -j$(nproc) all install
```

### VDBfusion

```sh
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/PRBonn/vdbfusion.git && cd vdbfusion
mkdir build && cd build && cmake .. &&  sudo make -j$(nproc) all install
 ```

### ROS

For now only [ROS Noetic](http://wiki.ros.org/noetic) is supported.  

As an extra dependency install: `sudo apt install ros-noetic-tf2-sensor-msgs`.
On your catkin workspace, clone the vdbfusion_ros:
```sh
cd catkin_ws/src/
git clone https://github.com/PRBonn/vdbfusion_ros.git
catkin build
  ```

## Usage

### Configuration

1. Create a config file compatible with your dataset and desired tsdf integration parameters using this [template configuration](/config/template.yaml)
2. The PointClouds should be a `sensor_msgs/PointCloud2` message published on a custom topic name which needs to be specified in the config file
3. The Transforms should be either a `tf2_msgs/TFMessage` or a `geometry_msgs/TransformStamped`. See the [template configuration](config/template.yaml) for more details
4. The data can be published either through a rosbag file or directly from another ros node

### Launch

```sh
roslaunch vdbfusion_ros vdbfusion.launch config_file_name:=<insert config file name here> path_to_rosbag_file:=<insert path to rosbag file here>
```

### Save the VDB Grid and Extract Triangle Mesh

```sh
rosservice call /save_vdb_volume "path: '<insert filename and path to save the volume and mesh>'"    
```

## Dataset Examples

Download the dataset rosbag files from the respective links

### [TU Munich RGB-D SLAM Dataset and Benchmark - FR1DESK2](https://vision.in.tum.de/data/datasets/rgbd-dataset)

- Use the sample [config file](config/FR2Desk2.yaml) provided for this dataset

### [ETH Zurich ASL: Cow and Lady RGBD Dataset](https://projects.asl.ethz.ch/datasets/doku.php?id=iros2017)

- Use the sample [config file](config/CowAndLady.yaml) provided for this dataset

### [KITTI Dataset](http://www.cvlibs.net/datasets/kitti/raw_data.php)

- Convert the dataset into a rosbag file using [kitti2bag](https://github.com/tomas789/kitti2bag)
- Use the sample [config file](config/KITTI.yaml) provided for this dataset 

Run the [launch](README.md#launch) command providing config file and rosbag path corresponding to the dataset.

Use the [rosservice](README.md#save-the-vdb-grid-and-extract-triangle-mesh) to save the VDB volume and mesh


## Citation
If you use this library for any academic work, please cite the original [paper](https://www.ipb.uni-bonn.de/wp-content/papercite-data/pdf/vizzo2022sensors.pdf).

```bibtex
@article{vizzo2022sensors,
  author         = {Vizzo, Ignacio and Guadagnino, Tiziano and Behley, Jens and Stachniss, Cyrill},
  title          = {VDBFusion: Flexible and Efficient TSDF Integration of Range Sensor Data},
  journal        = {Sensors},
  volume         = {22},
  year           = {2022},
  number         = {3},
  article-number = {1296},
  url            = {https://www.mdpi.com/1424-8220/22/3/1296},
  issn           = {1424-8220},
  doi            = {10.3390/s22031296}
}
```

Commit message:

docs: update readme with another version on ROS1 (#4)

README.md, after:

# ROS-VDBFusion: Flexible and Efficient TSDF Integration

A ROS C++ wrapper to the [vdbfusion](https://github.com/PRBonn/vdbfusion) library for flexible and efficient TSDF Integration

## Installation

### OpenVDB

```sh
# Install OpenVDB dependencies
sudo apt-get update && apt-get install --no-install-recommends -y \
    libblosc-dev \
    libboost-iostreams-dev \
    libboost-system-dev \
    libboost-system-dev \
    libeigen3-dev

# Install OpenVDB from source
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/nachovizzo/openvdb.git -b nacho/vdbfusion && cd openvdb
mkdir build && cd build && cmake  -DCMAKE_POSITION_INDEPENDENT_CODE=ON -DUSE_ZLIB=OFF .. &&  sudo make -j$(nproc) all install
```

### VDBfusion

```sh
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/PRBonn/vdbfusion.git && cd vdbfusion
mkdir build && cd build && cmake .. &&  sudo make -j$(nproc) all install
```

### ROS

For now only [ROS Noetic](http://wiki.ros.org/noetic) is supported.  

As an extra dependency install: `sudo apt install ros-noetic-tf2-sensor-msgs`.
On your catkin workspace, clone the vdbfusion_ros:

```sh
cd catkin_ws/src/
git clone https://github.com/PRBonn/vdbfusion_ros.git
catkin build
```

## Usage

### Configuration

1. Create a config file compatible with your dataset and desired tsdf integration parameters using this [template configuration](/config/template.yaml)
2. The PointClouds should be a `sensor_msgs/PointCloud2` message published on a custom topic name which needs to be specified in the config file
3. The Transforms should be either a `tf2_msgs/TFMessage` or a `geometry_msgs/TransformStamped`. See the [template configuration](config/template.yaml) for more details
4. The data can be published either through a rosbag file or directly from another ros node

### Launch

```sh
roslaunch vdbfusion_ros vdbfusion.launch config_file_name:=<insert config file name here> path_to_rosbag_file:=<insert path to rosbag file here>
```

### Save the VDB Grid and Extract Triangle Mesh

```sh
rosservice call /save_vdb_volume "path: '<insert filename and path to save the volume and mesh>'"    
```

## Dataset Examples

Download the dataset rosbag files from the respective links

### [TU Munich RGB-D SLAM Dataset and Benchmark - FR1DESK2](https://vision.in.tum.de/data/datasets/rgbd-dataset)

- Use the sample [config file](config/FR2Desk2.yaml) provided for this dataset

### [ETH Zurich ASL: Cow and Lady RGBD Dataset](https://projects.asl.ethz.ch/datasets/doku.php?id=iros2017)

- Use the sample [config file](config/CowAndLady.yaml) provided for this dataset

### [KITTI Dataset](http://www.cvlibs.net/datasets/kitti/raw_data.php)

- Convert the dataset into a rosbag file using [kitti2bag](https://github.com/tomas789/kitti2bag)
- Use the sample [config file](config/KITTI.yaml) provided for this dataset 

Run the [launch](README.md#launch) command providing config file and rosbag path corresponding to the dataset.

Use the [rosservice](README.md#save-the-vdb-grid-and-extract-triangle-mesh) to save the VDB volume and mesh


## Citation

If you use this library for any academic work, please cite the original [paper](https://www.ipb.uni-bonn.de/wp-content/papercite-data/pdf/vizzo2022sensors.pdf).

```bibtex
@article{vizzo2022sensors,
  author         = {Vizzo, Ignacio and Guadagnino, Tiziano and Behley, Jens and Stachniss, Cyrill},
  title          = {VDBFusion: Flexible and Efficient TSDF Integration of Range Sensor Data},
  journal        = {Sensors},
  volume         = {22},
  year           = {2022},
  number         = {3},
  article-number = {1296},
  url            = {https://www.mdpi.com/1424-8220/22/3/1296},
  issn           = {1424-8220},
  doi            = {10.3390/s22031296}
}
```

## Others

Here is [another ROS1 version](https://github.com/Kin-Zhang/vdbfusion_mapping) from [Kin ZHANG](https://github.com/Kin-Zhang) since there is a little different transform on [ETH Zurich ASL: Cow and Lady RGBD Dataset](https://projects.asl.ethz.ch/datasets/doku.php?id=iros2017). This implementation will get correct results as the origin vdbfusion, please check more on issue: https://github.com/PRBonn/vdbfusion_ros/issues/2. The result screenshot shown here with RGB involved also:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/35365764/200626528-a657a0e6-2fca-48d7-8b34-d8619b6f33e8.png)
